# Automatic-Essay-Grader
Essays are a great form of examination as they not only test the student's writing skills but also their analysis skills. The teacher can test the student's critical thinking with the help of essays. Today, almost all educational institute practice essay based testing which requires the students to think critically, analyse the situation and then write an essay on a particular topic. Today, most of the competitive exams for higher education like GRE and GMAT prefer to test the analytic skills of students by asking them to write an essay. Essays tend to decide the future of the students in these sorts of exams, a good essay could be the key to admission in an elite university. Thus, essays play a vital role in student's life.
Although essays are a great way to test a student's knowledge the method of correcting them are outdated and error prone. Essays today are corrected by teachers manually. Essays are subjective, it changes from person to person. It is not necessary that everyone will agree or like the content of an essay and this can lead to ambiguity. Manual correction can also lead to biasing if the teacher knows the student, and this could lead to several repercussions. There are several other factors like mood of the teacher, the style which can determine the correction pattern and thus manual correction doesn’t not lead to an accurate and fair grade. The students thus have to suffer because of unfair correction as he/she will get low grades and might lose confidence or lose out on a seat.
Keeping all the above factors in mind, we came up with the solution to automate the process of correcting essays. We have made a machine learning model using the concepts of natural language processing, Long short term memory and Word2Vector to automatically grade an essay. This model eases the work of the teachers as it provides the grade on it own by examining the text.Essays are a great form of examination as they not only test the student's writing skills but also their analysis skills. The teacher can test the student's critical thinking with the help of essays. Today, almost all educational institute practice essay based testing which requires the students to think critically, analyse the situation and then write an essay on a particular topic. Today, most of the competitive exams for higher education like GRE and GMAT prefer to test the analytic skills of students by asking them to write an essay. Essays tend to decide the future of the students in these sorts of exams, a good essay could be the key to admission in an elite university. Thus, essays play a vital role in student's life. Although essays are a great way to test a student's knowledge the method of correcting them are outdated and error prone. Essays today are corrected by teachers manually. Essays are subjective, it changes from person to person. It is not necessary that everyone will agree or like the content of an essay and this can lead to ambiguity. Manual correction can also lead to biasing if the teacher knows the student, and this could lead to several repercussions. There are several other factors like mood of the teacher, the style which can determine the correction pattern and thus manual correction doesn’t not lead to an accurate and fair grade. The students thus have to suffer because of unfair correction as he/she will get low grades and might lose confidence or lose out on a seat. Keeping all the above factors in mind, we came up with the solution to automate the process of correcting essays. We have made a machine learning model using the concepts of natural language processing, Long short term memory and Word2Vector to automatically grade an essay. This model eases the work of the teachers as it provides the grade on it own by examining the text.

## Skills: Flask · Web Development · Natural Language Processing (NLP) · Deep Learning · TensorFlow
